From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 34 recorded live
Thursday, August 23rd, 2012. This episode is
brought to you by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@tblerik.com and
by Franklin Stott net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details@gesturepak.com. In this
episode, Scott, Hunter, and Damien
Edwards. Talk to a new
developer on the asp.net team.
Taylor Mullen about how he
interviewed and joined Microsoft. Hi,
this is Scott Hunter and Daniel
and Taylor mullet. And we're
filling in for Scott Hanselman
this week because, and I
walked down the hallway and
we couldn't find Scott and
we saw it was getting
to the end of the
week. And we're like, where's
Hanselman. It's going to come
from this week. And we
thought, heck, we'll just record
it ourselves. So the topic
we thought we'd do today
is what is it like
to join Microsoft? What is
it like to come out
of college and join the
board? So we've got in
Taylor Mullin here today, and
he's gonna tell us about
how we joined Microsoft. So
how did you get here?
So it all started off
in college. And one day
senior year we had an
evangelist from Microsoft come in.
Her name was Lindsey Lindstrom,
and she came in and
said that the imagine cup
would be a really great
opportunity to go ahead and
get us introduced to the
whole Microsoft world and potentially
show what we've been working
on through college and what
we could do. So started
working on our magical projects
and we ended up so
first off, what were you
doing at college when you
know, this Vangelis came to
Microsoft or Microsoft? So at
the time again, the beginning
of senior year, and we
mean, my teammates, Matthew was
snacking. He there's, we're just
programming, trying to get through
classes and basically just doing
a little side projects. So
we had been working on
this game called math dash
and it was a mobile
game for guess what? The
windows phone seven. And when
we heard about this, imagine
cuff ended up working perfectly
to fit into the whole
magic of goals. So we
started on this whole process
of doing imagine, how long
have you actually been here
now? Taylor, how long have
you been here? So I've
been here for around a
month and a week now.
So yeah, it's been great
experience so far. And so
you said you were first
introduced to Microsoft by this
evangelist talking to you about
how can you tell the
listeners what you imagined companies?
Cause I imagine a lot
of people haven't actually heard
of it. So the magic
cup is a Microsoft run
competition and technology competition, where
they challenged students to create
some sorts of technology, to
really help better the world.
And you can do things
from making a website to
make me gain that could
really make a difference to
the world. And you can't
get mad at States as
a whole to me, education
or health or the son
asked better. So what are
some of the topics that
they've chosen previous years? Imagine
cops is an example of
the pocket thing you're talking
about and what was the
topic of the year that
you were involved? So the
theme of this year's magic
was that imagine a world
where technology helps solve the
world's toughest problems and they
give you like three main
categories of what you can
choose from. So there's a
software design category, there's a
game design category, which has
two other categories in it,
which is Xbox and windows
phone. So you have the
chance to be in these
three categories. And I decided
to go ahead or my
team. And I decided to
go ahead and do the
windows phone game category. That's
interesting. I actually worked with
someone who won the imagine
cup in Australia back when
I worked at Readify, we
had recently just launched in
Australia as well. So did
you have any success once
you actually got involved? So
the whole thing started out
with just the national magic
cup, where we had to
go ahead and compete against
everyone in the United States. And
we ended up being really
successful. We got into the
finals and the next thing
we knew it, we ended
up winning the national imagine
forcing windows game design windows,
phone category. So we then
ended up going ahead and
going further and saying, well,
we'd really like to do
this on an international level.
So we then ended up
competing in the international competition,
which for the game design
foam category was complete, completely
different. We had to recompete
and all go through all
the rounds. We ended up
again becoming finals and we
actually could first, just like
in the nationals for the
international competition was out in
Australia. So that was a,
it was a very, very
fun experience and obviously helped
me get into Microsoft and
really kind of showed me
how awesome Microsoft is and
how diverse it really is.
So after you guys won
the imagine cup, did we
come out and ask you
to join Microsoft? Or what
was the next step there?
How did you, how you
end up here? So through
the whole process, please see
everything we did had Microsoft
somewhat attached. And so he
couldn't really help us kind
of view the how awesome
Microsoft really was. So Lindsey,
our Vangelis, she came up
to us and said, guys,
why don't you try buying
from Microsoft? This could really
work out. And so at
the time I applied to
Microsoft, this was actually before
I had won the national
competition and before when the
international competition, but I'm like,
this is worth a shot
and I'm really, really liking
what I see. So went
ahead and applied and Hey,
here I am now. So
when you say you applied,
does that mean you went
to careers.microsoft.com and fill out
a resume there? Or how
did you actually apply? So
it was kind of a
mix of both. At first
we had talked to Lindsey
and she said, Oh, well,
I'll get you in touch
with someone. But then they
said, you know what? You
should really go through the
proper route with this and
go ahead and fill out
something on careers.microsoft.com and see
what comes about. So we
did that when I say
we I'm talking about me
and my other teammates were
on the team he imagined.
And so we went ahead
and filled that out and
we got contacted. We went
through interviews and next thing
you know, I was flying
out to Seattle to have
my onsite. So I've heard
all these crazy stories about
these Microsoft interviews being tough
and brutal and stuff like
that. So can you tell
us a little bit, Hi,
I have to say there's
definitely a lot of talk
out there of Microsoft interviews
might not be as hard
as other ones, but I
interviewed at Google, I interviewed
a lot of other top
notch companies and Microsoft was
definitely an equal caliber and
very difficult, enjoyable, almost. It
was, it was enjoying, but
nerve wracking at the same
time, because when through the
interviews, I'm like, Oh, did
I answer that well? And
was that the correct answer?
Is there a better answer?
And you're just constantly doubting
yourself and kind of checking,
but it was a great
experience. It's interesting to hear
people's experiences about, cause I
don't think a lot of
people talk about it openly
for one reason or another
on myself. I mean, I've
been here nearly three years
now. I was what we
call an industry hire. And
I know Scott has talked
about this on the podcast
before the ratio between industry
highs and Microsoft versus college.
And I'm assuming that you're
classified as a college high
because you hang straight out
of college. So I'm wondering
if the types of things
that they were testing were
a little bit different. Also
you apply for a developer
role. And I obviously interviewed
for a program management role.
So I know when I
interviewed, I interviewed with a
bunch of different program managers.
I think new Scott, I
interviewed the old boss at
the time Calvin, I needed
you move a bunch of
people from the team. I
was going to join my
immediate bosses, bosses boss six
in the day, the topics
weren't about programming. This substrate
is always going to be
a program manager. It was
more about product development. What
type of things did they
talk about the developers? Actually,
I like to interject as
well. I think when, when
you and I interviewed, we
both interviewed knowing what we
were going to go in
as well. And that's something
I'd love to hear. If
Taylor knows, knew what team
he was going to join
or are, he was just
interviewing broadly across Microsoft and
just kind of landed over
here. So I'd love to
know. As I said, we,
we both interviewed specifically for
the AFL team or the
visual web developer team. So
what, who did you interview
for? So when I first
started, they give you this
little sheet and they say,
what would you like to
be a part of? What
team would you like to
be a part of? Because
being in college higher as
I am, you don't have
to have as you don't
apply for a specific team,
they really try and place
you in a team that
really works for you. So
I am really into new
technology, finding stuff that is
basically bleeding edge and really
making it, making a difference
in the tech industry. So
I ended up interviewing for
them and designer team as
here I am now. And
it was just one of
these things where I'm like,
how this is perfect cloud
computing. What could, could be
less impactful? Is this, so
this was, is absolutely enormous
to kind of get this
opportunity to interview for a
team, which was exactly what
I wanted. And I'm asked
for naming your question of
like the questions I was
asked or how was it
like in my experience with
it, I kind of came
in after reading a lot
of the interviews online thinking
there's not going to be
too much. COVID maybe it'd
be 50 50. Well, it
ended up being just one,
see a program question per
interview with multiple interviews in
a single day. And as
they went through, we got
harder and harder and harder.
So it was just a
progressive thing where I'm like,
Oh, the next interview, they
want to ask me a
programming question. And I eventually
ended up getting to the
very last question, our very
last interview. And usually Microsoft
use the very last one.
It means that you've done
pretty well so far. So
I'm sitting there and I
am interviewing with basically my
two bosses bosses boss, and
he's asking me really, really
difficult questions, hard to wrap
your head around. And then
he also then goes ahead
and says, alright, you need
to program this right now
on the computer. So usually
you might be able to
get away with, okay, I'll
whiteboard it and abstract some
ideas out. Then I had
to sit down there and
really kind of work this
out. And it was absolutely
nerve wracking doing this for
my boss's boss's boss. And
then on top of that,
trying to figure out this
almost seemed like impossible question,
but it ended up working
out in the end. I
somehow hello, absolutely fantastic experience.
So after that day was
over and you walked away,
how long was it till
you got an offer from
Microsoft? Did you, when you
left or was it when
you got home? How did
that work out? Well, after
having gone there, I was,
I heard it usually is
like around like a week
and a half or so,
but I ended up walking
out and I think I
got it the next day.
So they really had a
fast turnaround around, you hear
all these horror stories about
how it can be really
difficult for a recruiter, really
keep on touch with people
where they're recruiting for Microsoft
experience. It was almost instant
turnaround for everything that I
did and instant feedback. So
I knew what I had
bright, what I did wrong,
where I was going and
what I could potentially have
in the future. So after
all of that, you get
an offer in Microsoft. And
I'm curious, what's the experience
like when you first come
up here the first day
at work, what is, what
is that like at Microsoft?
Well, I went ahead and
I guess for the first
day of work, any Microsoft
employees, you have something called
Neo new employee orientation. And
first thing we realize is
that you're not alone. There
is around three, 400 people
sitting in one enormous room
with you. I think Microsoft
hires something like 12,000 brand
new employees a year and
being a company of only
a hundred thousand people. That's
absolutely enormous. So seeing all
these other people around you
for as I feel like,
wow, there's a lot of
people. The next they go
ahead and ask everyone a
question. So where is everyone
from? What countries are you
from? And we ended up
having like 35 different countries
from around the world and
it really showed how diverse
Microsoft really is. You aren't
just all from America or
all from this in one
given country, you're from all
around the world. And you're
interacting with people who have
different cultures, different skillsets. And
it was absolutely exciting. You're
basically shaking the whole day.
You're so excited to be.
There was like, wow, I
can't believe this is actually
happening to something I've dreamed
of my entire life. And
next thing you know, here
you are, and you're actually
doing your dream. I'll be
curious to ask this around
the entire room here. I
remember when I would do
the same process. And I
remember the first day we
went through this Neo process,
new employee orientation. And the
second day, I think you
could, you can leave early
and go to your office
and check out your office
for the first time. And
I've worked at a few
places in my career and
I'm like, okay, I'm going
to walk in. And there's
going to be like a
desk set up with all
my stuff. And I remember
I walked in and there
was just a pile of
boxes with computers and monitors
and stuff like this. And
I'm like really Microsoft. I
mean, we've got a hundred
thousand employees and it's build
your own. Was that, was
that your experience? That's exactly
what happened to me. So
again, they said early, you
can leave early and go
out of your office. A
lot of people won't do
that. So we got out
at five at three o'clock
or something, and I found
the building, you learn how
the shovels work, how to
get on with the campuses
and all of this, obviously.
So as a new company,
you're trying to figure out
how do I get from
where Neo is in this
particular building over to wherever
it is ongoing. And at
that point it was building
out the office. And then
I was like, Oh, there's
a desk with a box
with a mini tower in
it. And two monitors and
you've offices in a box
with a keyboard and a
box of the mouse. And
it's like, build your computer.
I'd love to mention of
Oxford. I am in a
box with an extra hard
drive. So I had to
actually take the computer or
pot, put extra bits in
it. And they were made
for me, that was fine.
I've been working computers since
I was 15. I've built
hundreds of thousands of computers
before, but it was jarring
in some way. I was
like, Oh, I texted them.
This it, or whoever would
just take care of this,
but it was actually kind
of empowering too. So entail.
Or was it the same
for you? Or what was
it called? It was absolutely
during for me too. Yeah,
I got there, there was
a big pile of boxes
and I'm like, wait, did
they forget to set my
stuff up? So your reaction
we all had, I don't
know why we expect, I
don't know why we expected
it because at the end
of the day is if
Damien said, you know, in
some ways it's your computer,
you want to own it.
You want to set it
up your way. You want
it to be your way.
So I mean, it's, in
some ways there's a lot
better. If I came into
a machine that was already
set up, I probably would've
just paved it down anyways
and set it up my
way. But it is funny
to go, okay, this huge
company and your first day,
it's like a stack of
boxes. The other funny thing
I remember was my boss
at the time, walking into
my office and I knew
how to walk to his
office and back to my
office. And then later in
the day, I found myself
in a corner of the
building. And, you know, as
Damien said, the campus is
huge and these buildings are
huge and they've got winding
hallways and stuff like this.
And I'm like, here's my
first day. And I'm not
sure I can find my
office again. And I'm like,
that's the worst thing to
just say your first day
is like, Hey, you just
hired me. And I can't
find my own office. And
I remember walking around for
about five minutes to find
my office. You know, I
had a similar experience and
I also distinctly remember recognizing
faces in the hallway, like
the who's, who of the
Microsoft technology elite. And then
my first office was literally
on the other side of
the kitchen. And then I
ran the other corner was
Scott Guthrie's boss at the
time. So he was the
head of head of dev
here. And I remember getting
a coffee on the second
day and the kitchenette and
I was standing in line
behind Soma to get my
coffee. And I just couldn't
help myself. I said, Oh,
you know, you also Mirage
because I know, Oh, you
know, I just thought it,
I it's funny. Cause we
talk about interviewing. We do
have bosses, bosses, boss, and
it gives you this. Maybe
gives people the idea that
Microsoft has this huge hierarchy.
It was one of the
first things you do when
you get your computer running
is you get outlook open.
You do have any gal
surfing and you go off
to see how many levels
it is until you hit
a bomber over the top.
And it really isn't that
many it's less now than
it was now than it
was back then. And so
even on a day to
day basis, it's actually incredibly
flat. A lot of the
times we end up having
conversations with your boss's boss's
boss as well. So you
might be Palmer or whatnot,
or, you know, two levels
away. It's pretty flat to
spot the fact that you're
HR wise, NYP, if you
level in you and really
know, well, another funny aspect
of that too is is,
you know, you think this
huge company, a hundred thousand
people that you would never
see the Steve Wallner's, the
Somas, the Scott Guthrie's, the
Jason's Andrews and the campus
is pretty amazing that on
a regular basis, you're going
to run into all those
kinds of people. So you're
going to run into your
boss's boss's boss and have
a chance to have a
conversation in the hallway. My,
my funniest rendition of this
was I was in the
parking deck one day and
someone was behind me and
some I had lost, I
love this badge at home
that day. And we had
this policy that you're not
supposed to ever let somebody
in the door unless they
have a badge. If they
call it tailgating here, if
you, if you let somebody
follow this all in with,
at heart, I remember someone
was behind me and I'm
like, I just held the
door open. Oh yeah, I'm
going to that. I'm going
to leave. Someone was standing
in the parking garage and
making what walk up to
reception to, I forget a
badge to get in the
building. So I've got a
question for Taylor again, you
know, we kind of talked
about how you got here.
What are you working on?
So right now I'm focusing
on open source technology, more
specifically called signal and signal.
It's basically allowing asp.net applications
in any application in general
to really be real time.
Right now there's a huge
trend in the market going
towards having real time applications
where a certain person does
something, then your friend or
somebody else will also see
exactly what you do. And
a signal are, is kind
of the framework to really
allow developers and allow people
to make their applications, have
this ability. And we're really
working on getting signal arts,
just make that an easier
process than it already is
today. So obviously I'm very
excited about this because it
is something I've been involved
in since the very beginning.
And I fact, I was
just thinking about it yesterday.
I trying to think back
to where it all started
the inception point. And there
was a presentation I did
at, at the mics, which
unfortunately no longer around and
my favorite conferences, but it
was a year ago, a
year and a half ago.
It was last April and
it wasn't even cold signal.
Or at that point, I
think we'd given it a
card name of Q or
something. I've had an example
of how to do Ajax
long polling in asp.net asynchronously
using SQL server notification services,
Curry notification services to get
the updates from a, from
a background store and how
far we've come since then.
So it's great that we've
got a new developer on
the team now working full
time on signal. What type
of things that we actually
caught you doing other than
just I'm working on signal
all the specifics if you
work on. So we just
did a release yesterday. So
we were involved in that
role. So always most of
the year from love you
like, Oh, I don't work
on anything that is potentially
used to a certain application
here at Microsoft. That's not
the case I just started.
And I, and two features
shipping the latest version. I've
already gone ahead and built
for the next version and
obviously fixing bugs and really
just making sure that everything
that is built up to
beat and really getting a
product out so that all
users can really enjoy the
exactly what you do. So
you get this really gratifying
feeling of, wow, I'm doing
something that now is going
to affect thousands of people.
So, yeah. So I'm curious.
I mean, you always hear
outside of Microsoft, is this,
this huge door with layers
of management, stuff like that,
and you can't get stuff
done quickly. I'm hearing the
opposite. I'm hearing that you
joined and within a few
weeks, you're adding features already.
Yeah. Actually signal R is
complete based on GitHub. And
I've had multiple requests with
multiple features involved in them.
And I'm just doing a
part of the team already.
I feel like I've been
here for a year, even
though I've only been here
for just over a month,
just because of what they're
having me do. And really,
I guess they call it
Microsoft drinking from the fire
hose where there's so much
to learn if you're willing
to learn it, which most
people, if not all people
here are, and there's so
much to gain. Do you
have any pet projects you're
working on at the moment?
They'll do a signal or
anything else? Is that something
that like when you get
in  and you're in
the team room, what are
you working on before anyone
else ends up being a
developer in loving radio, definitely
have side projects right now.
I'm actually working on a
demo and again, ignores real
time. So making games, making
a game that will actually
allow players to play against
each other, have little ships
through each other and to
have as many players as
there. So that something like
this might seem like it
takes years for some of
these games that you see
for multiplayer games, I've gone
ahead and done it around
two hours. So it's just
a little project that has
made so much easier by
simplification. So once I started
working on it, I couldn't
help them make something. That's
cool because I know David's
working on a game as
well. I wanted you to
use the name cause I'm
sure it's probably riff off
of a real game today,
but I know he's been
working on a game as
well. So hopefully you two
together working on different games,
samples can land on a,
a really good example that
people can use to build
HTML five based real time
games. That'd be fantastic. I
mean, working on your cricket
as well, of course, you
know, I've got this little
hallway and you turn around
the hallway and see two
things. First is this awesome
cricket setup. And I guess
I'll leave the other one
out for now. The average
five o'clock cricket in the
hallway. It's this something that
you have to do? Every
is team building right here.
We have fun yesterday. We
went in, it was two
days ago. We were playing
cricket and those by five
30, I think it's part
of the building. I will
say that it's only many
people over there. And I
think Val was batting and
I was in an office
fielding because occasionally the bowl
come into the office and
I came out of the
office. Yeah, right in front
of me. And I was
like, Oh, don't hit girls.
He comes down the office.
And he found that quite
funny that we were in
the afternoon.  Because I
want to thank Taylor for
kind of explaining to us
what it's like to interview,
join and start programming at
Microsoft. We might be back
next week. I don't know
if we don't find Hanselman.
This crew might be back
next week doing another one
of these podcasts. So thank
you very much. .